README.md, before:

```
    _/      _/                                _/  _/
   _/_/  _/_/    _/_/_/  _/_/_/    _/_/_/        _/  _/
  _/  _/  _/  _/    _/  _/    _/  _/    _/  _/  _/_/
 _/      _/  _/    _/  _/    _/  _/    _/  _/  _/  _/
_/      _/    _/_/_/  _/_/_/    _/    _/  _/  _/    _/
                     _/
                    _/
```

[![Build Status Linux](https://secure.travis-ci.org/mapnik/mapnik.png)](http://travis-ci.org/mapnik/mapnik)
[![Build status Windows](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/hc9l7okdjtucfqqn?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/Mapbox/mapnik)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/mapnik/mapnik/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/mapnik/mapnik?branch=master)

Mapnik is an open source toolkit for developing mapping applications. At the core is a C++ shared library providing algorithms and patterns for spatial data access and visualization.

Mapnik is basically a collection of geographic objects like maps, layers, datasources, features, and geometries. The library doesn't rely on any OS specific "windowing systems" and it can be deployed to any server environment. It is intended to play fair in a multi-threaded environment and is aimed primarily, but not exclusively, at web-based development.

For further information see [http://mapnik.org](http://mapnik.org) and also our [wiki documentation](https://github.com/mapnik/mapnik/wiki).

# Installation

See [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/mapnik/mapnik/blob/master/INSTALL.md) for installation instructions and the [Install](https://github.com/mapnik/mapnik/wiki/Mapnik-Installation) page on the wiki for guides.

# License

Mapnik software is free and is released under the LGPL ([GNU Lesser General Public License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html_)). Please see [COPYING](https://github.com/mapnik/mapnik/blob/master/COPYING) for more information.

Commit message:

add proposed code of conduct from http://contributor-covenant.org

README.md, after:

```
    _/      _/                                _/  _/
   _/_/  _/_/    _/_/_/  _/_/_/    _/_/_/        _/  _/
  _/  _/  _/  _/    _/  _/    _/  _/    _/  _/  _/_/
 _/      _/  _/    _/  _/    _/  _/    _/  _/  _/  _/
_/      _/    _/_/_/  _/_/_/    _/    _/  _/  _/    _/
                     _/
                    _/
```

[![Build Status Linux](https://secure.travis-ci.org/mapnik/mapnik.png)](http://travis-ci.org/mapnik/mapnik)
[![Build status Windows](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/hc9l7okdjtucfqqn?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/Mapbox/mapnik)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/mapnik/mapnik/badge.svg?branch=master&service=github)](https://coveralls.io/github/mapnik/mapnik?branch=master)

Mapnik is an open source toolkit for developing mapping applications. At the core is a C++ shared library providing algorithms and patterns for spatial data access and visualization.

Mapnik is basically a collection of geographic objects like maps, layers, datasources, features, and geometries. The library doesn't rely on any OS specific "windowing systems" and it can be deployed to any server environment. It is intended to play fair in a multi-threaded environment and is aimed primarily, but not exclusively, at web-based development.

For further information see [http://mapnik.org](http://mapnik.org) and also our [wiki documentation](https://github.com/mapnik/mapnik/wiki).

# Installation

See [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/mapnik/mapnik/blob/master/INSTALL.md) for installation instructions and the [Install](https://github.com/mapnik/mapnik/wiki/Mapnik-Installation) page on the wiki for guides.

# Code of Conduct

Please note that this project is released with a [Contributor Code of Conduct](https://github.com/mapnik/mapnik/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in this project you agree to abide by its terms.

# License

Mapnik software is free and is released under the LGPL ([GNU Lesser General Public License](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html_)). Please see [COPYING](https://github.com/mapnik/mapnik/blob/master/COPYING) for more information.
